---
layout: post
title: Rest a tool to help you look after those eyes
---

Both my parents have to wear glasses and a number of my friends do too and while it's recommended that we all take a 5 minute break for every hour we work at a computer very few of us really do.

There are a bunch of mac apps out there that do the job, one that comes to mind is [Time Out](http://www.dejal.com/timeout/). While it does the job it did get a little annoying after a month or so.

1. It took up space in my dock and resources becuase it was always running.
2. It was rather complicated, the break screen contained a logo, a timer and a bunch of buttons. All these things encouraged me to stare at my screen rather than walk away from it.
3. It gave me too much choice when all I really wanted was a rough guide on when I should take a break.

Instead I decided to use my screens brightness to dictate when I should take a break. It's noticeable enough to inform me I should probably take a break but can also be ignored with a simple keystroke. After some googlings I found a great [little terminal application](http://hints.macworld.com/article.php?story=20090901021817717) which wraps OSX's native brightness controls into something I can call using bash.

From there I created the bash script

{% highlight bash %}
# Get the original brightness
BRIGHTNESS=`/rest/brightness -l`;

# Dim and then rest
`/rest/brightness 0`

# Rest
sleep 300

# Back to work!
`/rest/brightness ${BRIGHTNESS:60:8}` 
{% endhighlight %}

The last thing that needs to be done is to call the script every hour. To do this you can set up a cron job in OSX (Apple prefers you to use launchd, I looked into it but found it too confusing to get my head around so cron it is!). Open up a terminal and type

{% highlight bash %}

crontab -e

{% endhighlight %}

This opens up a crontab for the current user, from there we need to call our script. `*/60` basically means every 60th minute. So it should run on the hour every hour (while you're logged in).

{% highlight bash %}

*/60 * * * * sh /rest/test.sh

{% endhighlight %}

And there you have it. The screen should dim on the hour and then return to normal brightness 5 minutes later. Time will tell whether this is a better solution but it seems pretty nice so far.
