---
title: OMSVG
---

I've been noted throughout my life to be rather quiet, personally I don't see this as a negative thing - someone has to do the listening after all!

Regardless I decided to set myself the challenge of completing five talks by the year end with the aim that it'll make me appear more confident and may even stop my dreaded voice wobble!

Anyway enough background. This is my first talk and it's on SVG and how we can use it to do all sorts of things but above all make our sites sharper and lighter!

{% include video.html src="//www.youtube.com/embed/2L9A2kL7Egc" %}

I spent a lot of time trying to come up with a easy to consume, coherent structure but avoiding getting too bogged down with specifics.

To do this I started a google doc with the usual beginning-middle-end and filling out topics as I went. This meant I could hash out the basics without having to worry about the design of the slides.

Speaking of the slides I really underestimated how long these would take to create and so it also meant I had barely any time to practice and refine my talk - but maybe this was a good thing in hindsight?

Another thing to note for next time is when I do practice the talk I should do it with screen recording on. I found this added a significant lag on the computer which was yet another thing to worry about!

Everyone seemed to enjoy it and I got a lot of positive comments afterwards which is a huge relief

<blockquote>
    <p>cracking talk</p>
    <cite>Luke Quinnell</cite>
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
    <p>mate, I'm still thinking about that talk, you spoke so clearly and it wasn't rushed, eloquent, concise. Very impressive.</p>
    <cite>Jon Morgan</cite>
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
    <p>Awesome stuff @RobertRhoades! First time anybody has explained pixel density to me and I've actually understood it.</p>
    <cite>Matt Jones</cite>
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
    <p>++ for all the other reasons, but also for having a nice font selection :)</p>
    <cite>Steve Anderson</cite>
</blockquote>

And so with that out of the way onwards to talk number two!
